# What is DSA?

Data structures and algorithms, or DSA for short, is the merging of these two distinct but connected subjects. One of the most crucial abilities that each student of computer science should possess is DSA. People who are well-versed in these technologies are frequently observed to be better programmers than others, which helps them succeed in interviews with practically all of the major IT companies. This is because these subjects are the foundation of computer science and programming, and they are used in almost every aspect of programming.

## What is Data Structure?

A data structure is a specific method that we employ to ==store and arrange data== on our devices so that we may use it effectively and efficiently. Reducing the complexity in terms of time and space is the primary motivation for adopting data structures. Minimal memory space and execution time are required for an efficient data structure.

## What is an Algorithm?

An algorithm is ==a step-by-step procedure for solving a problem==. It is a sequence of well-defined instructions that take some value, or set of values, as input and produce some value, or set of values, as output. In other words, an algorithm is a sequence of computational steps that transform the input into the output.

## :LiAlertCircle: First step of learning DSA

The most important thing is to break down the entire process into smaller steps that must be completed in order.

There are four components to learning DSA from scratch in its entirety:

1. Learn about the intricacies of space and time.  
2. Discover the fundamentals of each type of data structure.  
3. Study the fundamentals of algorithms.  
4. Practice DSA Problems

[[2. Recall]]